---
title: vncdotool 0.9.0
author: marc
layout: post
permalink: /blog/2015/vncdotool-0-9-0
dsq_thread_id:
  - 3758323107
categories:
  - vncdotool
---
vncdotool is a command line VNC client and library, this release improves server compatibility and makes the library API more useful.  There is now a mailing list at [vncdotool@googlegroups.com][1] that can be used for vncdotool related discussion.  vncdotool 0.9.0 is available on [PyPi][2] and [GitHub][3]

On the compatabilty front *&#8211;force-caps* now handles more special characters &#8216;[~!@#$%^&*()_+{}|:\&#8221;<>?]&#8217; and *&#8211;force-caps=True* may become the default in the next release. The default pause between commands has been increased from 0 to 10ms, as some servers were dropping keypresses when sending type commands. With these changes vncdotool should \*just work\* with most servers.

Using vncdotool within a python script has been a popular request. Thanks to feedback on the 0.8 api module this release includes a number of important improvements. The API now works with passworded servers, plays nicer with PIL and supports connections to multiple servers.

For a full list of changes see [NEWS.txt][4].

As always thanks to everyone who provided feedback, bug reports and pull requests.  In particular, yhanks to Jan Sedlák, Daniel Stelter-Gliese, Antti Kervinen, Anatoly Techtonik, Tyler Oderkirk and Aragats Amirkhanyan.

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

 [1]: mailto:vncdotool@googlegroups.com "Google Groups"
 [2]: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/vncdotool/0.9.0 "PyPi"
 [3]: https://github.com/sibson/vncdotool/releases/tag/v0.9.0 "GitHub"
 [4]: https://github.com/sibson/vncdotool/blob/master/HISTORY.txt "HISTORY.txt"